[INTLY-1443] and [INTLY-2668] - Push Grafana dash + alerts + sop (#44)
aerogear/unifiedpush-operator: SOP/SOP-operator.adoc

:toc:
toc::[]

== Overview

> The following guide outlines the steps required to manage and solve issues over https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator[UnifiedPush Operator].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following guide outlines the steps required to manage and solve issues in the https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator[UnifiedPush Operator].
```

Author: 👍

== Reference Articles

- https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator[UnifiedPush Operator]
- https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/alerting/[Prometheus Alerts documentation]
- https://github.com/operator-framework[operator-framework]

== Success Indicators

> All alerts should appears as green in the Prometheus Alert Monitoring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All alerts should appear as green in the Prometheus Alert Monitoring.
```

Author: 👍

== Prometheus Alerts Procedures

> The following guide outlines the steps required to solve issues which will be alert by the Prometheus alerts configured to monitoring the https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator[UnifiedPush Operator]. This configuration is made by enable the https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator#monitoring-service-metrics[Monitoring Service (Metrics)] for this project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following guide outlines the steps required to resolve issues with the Prometheus alerts configured to monitor the https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator[UnifiedPush Operator]. The alerts are configured by enabling the https://github.com/aerogear/unifiedpush-operator#monitoring-service-metrics[Monitoring Service (Metrics)] for this project.
```

Author: 👍

== Critical

=== UnifiedPushOperatorDown

. Switch to the UnifiedPush namespace by running `oc project <namespace>`. E.g `oc project unifiedpush`.

> . Following the <<Validate>> steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Follow the <<Validate>> steps.
```

Is the instruction here to immediately jump down to that "Validate" section? Would it be better to put that section at the top?

Author: The change request is done. However, why put this section in the top? See that it follows an organization which is similar to the example suggested by SRE's. Also, the validate is not the goal of the doc and it has an index. So, for me, IMHO it is perfect where it is. Also, would be great we are able to start to do the things following it as a standard. In MSS Oper we have a PR to attend the same requests/needs. See here: https://github.com/aerogear/mobile-security-service-operator/pull/153

+

> NOTE: The operator is responsible to manage and create all objects required in order to have the UnifiedPush Service and its database provided in the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The operator is responsible for creating and managing all required objects for the UnifiedPush Service and its database in the cluster.
```

Author: 👍

. Check its logs by running `oc logs <operator-podname>`
+

> NOTE: You can save the logs by running `oc logs <operator-podname> > <filename>.log`. The logs may provide to you useful information to lead you the root cause as it is a required information for its maintainers are able to help you with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: You can save the logs by running `oc logs <operator-podname> > <filename>.log`. The logs may provide you with useful information to lead you to the root cause, and they are also useful for providing to the project maintainers when you create an issue.
```

Author: 👍

+

> TIP: May will be required re-install the project or just the link:./deploy/operator.yaml[operator.yaml] file if all kinds of CR and CRD's are applied in the namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

(I'm not comfortable with this, so I think it might be best to leave it out for now)

Author: It is in the case of the just the operator be deleted by a mistake.
However, as you wish. Removed.

== Warning

=== UnifiedPushPodCount

. Switch to the UnifiedPush namespace by running `oc project <namespace>`. E.g `oc project unifiedpush`.

> . Check if it has at least 3 pods (Service, Database and Operator) by running `oc get pods`.Following an example of the expected result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check if it has at least 3 pods (Service, Database and Operator) by running `oc get pods`. The following is an example of the expected result:
```

Author: 👍

+
[source,shell]
----
$ oc get pods
NAME                                           READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
example-unifiedpushserver-1-dk8vm              2/2       Running   2          9d
example-unifiedpushserver-postgresql-1-bw8mt   1/1       Running   1          9d
unifiedpush-operator-58c8877fd8-g6dvr          1/1       Running   3          9d
----
+
NOTE: The operator will keep the number of replicas specified in the DeploymentConfigs for the UnifiedPush Server and its Database in sync with what's specified in the UnifiedPushServer CR.

== Validate

> . Check if the operator pod to is present by running `oc get pods | grep operator`. Following an example of the expected result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check if the operator pod is present by running `oc get pod | grep operator`. The following is an example of the expected result:
```

Author: 👍
